Yeah, absolutely. Thanks. Lefteris hi folks. Nice to meet you. Many of you I know. Many of you I don't. My name is Cian Clarke, I'm near from head of AI and I am based in the southeast of Ireland. My background has been in many many years of startups and exits and quite new to the world of consulting, but at near form, I'm kind of hyper focused on this world of AI, native engineering and spec driven development. And that's where I spend a lot of my sort of time and research. And so I like to think of this as sort of almost a reference architecture for companies. Who are progressive in their deployment of tools looking to delve into the world of AI native and not everything on this slide is going to be either applicable or even suitable for yourselves. As a business, I understand you deal with a lot of very sensitive information that is proprietary. Some of these tools may not pass muster from a CISO perspective, and many of it, many of us will. So it's really sort of think of it as a menu of things you could be doing in the STLC with AI across a whole spectrum of roles, and then we'll talk a little bit about some of the tools that are helpful here as well.

And last but not least, a lot of the sort of chatter that's going on in Slack or teams that relates to projects under development tends to contain a lot of very valuable information. And so having something that watches these channels and actually harvests potential documentation and then also just sort of indexing that content for potential future questions can be very, very useful. So having something that helps new team members on board a bot that maybe new team members can ask questions of, sort of a replacement for the Let me Google that for you. Sort of search Slack and you'll find the result, but much easier if you've got something using techniques like rag retrieval. Augmented generation to generate an index of all the questions and answers that might have happened previously.

Things like interactive runbooks. When a running system goes down in the middle of the night and all of a sudden you're responsible for getting it back up and running again. Because it's, I think, important to remember this rosy picture and painting of AI developing all of the things when the system goes down, unfortunately, still someone in that room who's going to be pagers to go and fix it, right? We're still responsible for the uptime of these systems, and we're responsible for what we're shipping, even if we're not writing every single line. So having good runbooks becomes really more important than ever.

So hopefully that paints a nice kind of front to back picture all the way through the lifecycle.

27:04
I've covered a huge amount there. So before I start talking very quickly about specific tools, I wanted to just pause and see if there was any questions.

Starting with the world of transcribing meetings and so where there are lots of ideas flowing in a room having a transcript of all that has happened can be absolutely invaluable the meeting room you're in i'm sure is equipped with some very fancy audio conferencing equipment considering that i've got a camera Really, really helpful throughout the SDLC, be it a sprint retrospective or something much earlier in the phase like a like a, you know, describing what the requirements are. Two great tools for this Granola, zoom'saicompanion,youknow,teamstranscripts,also,uh,aperfectlygreattoolforthis.what'sparticularlynicegranolaisitgivesyouasortofaraglikedatabasewhereyoucanaskquestionsofpreviousmeetingsandsearchthehistoryandsoon.thatprovesvery,veryuseful.butthere'swaystotoindexdocumentsthatarecomingoutofbothzoomandandteamsaswell.intheworldofrapidprototyping,youknow,bolt.new and Lovable are two great tools for producing prototypes of something very quickly.

I tend to not then transition those prototypes into actually working software artifacts that that carry forward. I tend to treat those tools as generating throwaway output and lean more towards spec driven methods to generate something that's real production for for a software system.

Course, the the realm of foundation models, lots of great models to choose from.

Including, you know, models that might be more appropriate for an enterprise behind a VPC like Amazon's queue.

And then we move into sort of the world of IDEs, and then also spec driven tools. And so first of all, there's a bunch of great frameworks out there in the world of spec driven development, the three that we probably focus on the most would be SpecKit, the BMAD method, and then also Amazon's Kiro.

And then if you look at IDEs that support this sort of spec driven methodology, Again, you know, Kiro comes up. Amazon's Kiro is a great great tool for this. Cursor is another fantastic IDE. Visual Studio Code has great into a lot of these tools. So, you know, chances are the IDE that you're using will some level of connectivity back into something that can do spec driven development But that other sort of key layer of connectivity is MCP.

Alfonso is gonna go a little bit deeper into what that means in a moment, but essentially, you know, all of these IDEs have a connectivity layer into the tools you use every day like Jira, like Confluence, like Azure DevOps, like, Figma, Teams, you know, AWS itself has an MCP server. And so this kind of capability or skills layer can help can help your IDE achieve a lot of tasks that it otherwise wouldn't be able to do by gaining context, and abilities from the outside world.

31:10
And then, of course, throughout this whole life cycle is some degree of human in the loop kind of auditing and reviewing all of the the things that have happened along the way prompting, reviewing code, reviewing specs, and orchestrating all of the work that's happening at a much faster pace, but there is still very much a human in the loop like don't think we're, you know, we're in a world where enterprises can yet afford to, as the the Vibe coders call it, YOLO mode. That not really appropriate in an enterprise setting. And so a lot of the sort of traditional rules still apply, and that brings some challenges. Right? The pace of pull request review coming through the pipe gets much more The amount of artifacts being produced is much more.

